well let's bring in Maran bashara he's
alzer's senior political analyst Maran I
mean we've seen so much civilian
infrastructure being hit by Israeli air
strikes you've been saying this is this
is a war on hospitals it's also a war on
schools on shelters on
homes and fura school is like Al shifa
Hospital in the sense that fura school
is like the shifa of schools in Gaza
okay it's been bombed it's been targeted
like a shifo has in fact before the
Israeli Spinners come on the various
media Outlets to explain and to lie
about what happened in fura just now let
us remind our viewers around the world
that this school in this refugee camp
has was bombed in
2009 it was bombed in 2014 yeah it was
bombed early in this month in November
4th the fact that a school is not just
attacked it's bombed from the air which
means there's absolutely nothing
discriminate about the fact that a
school that shelters thousands of people
yeah has been bombed from the air that
is meant to create damage human loss
suffering and deaths because when you
attack a hospital with such a
concentration of people taking Refuge
refuge in the school you are sending a
message that is more than I am uh going
after I don't know what Hamas Fighters
here and there yeah what is saying is I
want people to be driven out I want
people to pay a price I want people to
die so once again just to summarize so
our viewers around the world don't get
confused about some detail or another
this school was bombed in 2009 2014 and
2023 and this is the second time this
month that has been bound and we're
seeing the human toll of that right now
on our screens what is is the jabala
refugee camp now to Israeli forces
clearly that there's a huge military
focus on this refugee camp and and for
our viewers from around the world what
does it mean for the Israeli Army you
know just generally speaking and and
just for our viewers around the world
who were of a certain
age I would say something like it's
suo you know of Palestine right like Su
of South Africa I mean it is a a place
where um it's of course a refugee camp
right so it's another one of those
refugee camps and clearly it has been
trying to uh rebuild itself and when it
was destroyed in 2009 they rebuilt it
again in fact with outside help yeah but
the people in refu in in in jabalia have
been steadfast throughout the Israelis
considered it at one point or another in
the past as as some kind of a resistance
stronghold but clearly the boming of the
hospital had absolutely nothing to do
with that because when we saw the images
and later on we looked at what in fact
happened and who
died scores dozens of people died in
each and every one that we know of at
the time right and now clearly this is
just another Massacre another Slaughter
of people happening in front of our eyes
but once again I
mean to underline uh the tactic being
used the strategy by the Israelis is on
the one hand they want to cause as much
damage as possible they want to make
sure that none of their soldiers is in
Any Which Way in any which probability
as In Harm's Way so they bomb from the
air bombing from the air and not from
drones or helicopters where at least you
can see clearly closely and you're
targeting certain thing when you're
bombing from the air that means you are
bombing a wide air area of of uh of
geographically speaking and that in a
place where it takes shelter thousands
of people yeah it's meant to kill as
many people as possible and Marana I
know that our our audience isn't
listening to the audio of this of this
video we have been getting that
translated for you here at Al jazer
English and we're hearing people there
in that video talking about being hit
overnight while sleeping let's listen
because you can also not only hear
people talk about what happened that
this strike took place overnight while
people were sleeping but you can also
not only hear but see children there who
are searching for their parents you you
can hear children calling for their
parents who aren't there now Maran
you've been saying that this is
obviously one of the most densely
populated parts of one of the most
densely populated parts of the world is
this part of a a broader policy of a
depopulation of the northern Gaza Strip
it's looking more and more likely I mean
you know as they say uh I hate to use
such uh uh sayings now but if it does
you know uh quack like a dog and a dock
and and walk like a dock then you know
it is probably as such and and the way
Israelis have been the way isra the way
Israeli military has been handling
itself and the way it's getting that
justification from Israeli politicians
clearly there is intent at ethnic
cleansing clearly there is intent at
Revenge clearly there's intent at
punitive measures against an entire
population and that's why it's probably
important once again to contextualize
what is it that we're seeing so in the
past six weeks we've seeing bombings of
hospital vicinities and even attacks on
hospitals we've seen bombings of schools
we've seen bombings of mosques we've
seen bombings of a church we've seen
bombings of residential buildings all of
that happening in plain sight in other
words Israel is carrying
killing on an industrial scale this is
no longer what they call hand-to-hand
confrontations this is an army with a
with an incredible Firepower that
Firepower is not just Israeli it's
American in fact looking back at some of
the reports that came out in 2009 and
2014 the people in gaza's mess m to the
rest of the world was
American jet fighters are bombing
us Maran let me ask you you've talked
here about potential ethnic
cleansing we've seen literally in in the
last day or so 36 un special rapporteur
signed a letter saying that there is
clear evidence of genocidal intent that
this is potentially a genocide in the
making they're calling on the World to
do more
what more could the world do right now
given the state of of of politics and
the way that countries are making their
decisions could something like this what
we're seeing now on a school the death
toll of women and children is something
like that going to shift opinion or is
it all just a bit too far gone this is
see this is the thing so the so-called
International Community or at least the
hypocritical part of it the Western
Powers have been making statements about
this and Maran I'm sorry to interrupt
you so quickly into your answer but we
are now getting translation of of an
unra press conference Tamara alari who
is a communications director at unra
that's the UN Agency for Palestine
refugees is giving a press conference on
the phone right now let's listen in dead
bodies are
received namely those from Alura un
school we carry on with
the capacity of this hospital is
very uh minimum we are taking hard
decisions we are comparing and
contrasting victims who to attend and
who to leave to die these are very
difficult decisions to be made by
doctors we are overwhelmed receiving
hundreds of
victims
well we've been listening just briefly
there to an unra press conference that's
the UN Agency for Palestine refugees now
they were running the school the alpha
cor school that's been hit in this
Israeli air strike that you're watching
the the video right now the aftermath of
they were running that school and
they've been talking about their their
operations the dire state of their
operations in the Gaza Strip we're
trying to get translation back for you
um of that press conference and we'll go
back to that as soon as we get it but
for for now let's go back to Maan Bashar
Maran you and I were just discussing
the idea of genocidal intent here and
whether anyone could do anything about
it do you think that the there's any
kind of light at the end of the tunnel
well as as I was saying um the United
States is the one that could actually
put an end to this now if it actually
uses its leverage with Israel but the
United States has been too weak and it's
a very very old and apparently not very
well very old president uh has been
boxing himself in be behind prime
minister Netanyahu and his military and
that's why the United States while it
says it doesn't want to see that kind of
action against schools and hospitals
it's actually given the green light for
it so while the United States has been
putting pressure verbally but not in any
other way secretary of state blinkin had
to go to Japan in order to issue have a
statement issued by the
G7 most powerful most rich World
democracies to tell Israel that it can
not ethnically cleanse the Palestinians
again and push them into the Sinai so
the question is to our viewers around
the world is why with the G7 out of out
of Japan issue a
statement to Israel not
to ethnically cleanse the
Palestinians unless there was an
intention or fear by those seven
countries that in fact Israel was about
to do just that ethnically the
Palestinians unfortunately Israel is not
listening to anyone because no one with
the power to influence Israel's decision
is using their leverage people uh
leaders like in Germany the UK and the
United States are speaking out of both
sides of their mouths on the one hand
they're
saying Israel needs to respect
international law such as not bomb
schools and hospitals but at the same
time when they're asked is Israel in
violation of international law they
mumbling and stuttering and not actually
taking a position that Israel in fact is
in violation of international law and
hence it has to be stopped those who are
capable of stopping Israel carrying such
crime as we see now in Alura school yeah
that again to remind viewers around the
world it was bombed in 2009 it was
bombed in
2014 it was bombed earlier this
month dozens of people were killed in
each and every air strike
schools one should
insist should not be bombed hospitals
should not be bombed that's the least
one can say about any War but this war
against Gaza has turned to a war against
children a war against hospitals a war
against schools and residential
neighborhoods because in the end of the
day one
can
explain why this is very complex
different but there is no justification
for what we see today unraveling in Gaza
just one last comment on that and it's
very
important those who
wouldn't condemn such an attack who
think that such attacks on hospitals and
schools and mosques and churches is
justifiable need to shut up about the
October 7 attack because those who think
the October 7 attack against civilians
is not
justifiable need to be able to say the
same thing with the same Humane compass
that what we've been seeing on October 8
9 10 11 12 13 14 November 1 123 through
November today that these are also not
justifiable attacks and must be
condemned Must Be Stopped Maran Bashar
aler senior political analyst thank you
for being with me here in the studio in
Doha